Okay, so we're gonna switch
back to our code editor.
And we're gonna take out this
hard coding of return yucky.
And I'm gonna make it go
back to the empty array,
because it is in fact part
of the specification.
That in the case that we do not find it,
we wanna return an empty array.
That's how we indicate if
it failed to spell it,
is that we return an empty array.
Okay, so the first thing that we
definitely want to check is to make sure,
this might not seem like it's super
useful but you'll see why, in a minute,
why we're gonna want this.
We need to check that we actually
have been given something.
The app is gonna make sure that we do
that but you'll see why in a moment,
cuz we're gonna invoke
some recursion here.
We need to check to make sure that we
actually have some input word to look at.
So, first thing,
we definitely need that if statement kinda
bounding what it is that we're doing.
Now, we want to go through all
of the elements and figure out,
how do I start spelling this?
So, if you were to pull out a pen and
a piece of paper and
you had the periodic table in the job,
which I've linked to in the project,
you could just sort of hand do that,
right?
You could say, all right,
I'm gonna start with the first letter, and
I'll see if I find an element
that matches the first letter.
And then you might go back and
say, well, actually,
what I wanna first do is check to see
if I find the first two letters as a,
symbol because I want to
prefer fewer symbols.
That's the interpretation we'll take.
I wanna prefer fewer symbols, so maybe
I'll first go through the periodic list
and see if I find any two letter matches.
But even if we find a two letter match, it
may end up being that the next letter you
don't have, and so,
actually have a one letter match.
So, you're gonna have to
do some backtracking.
As soon as you start to write
this out on a piece of paper,
you're gonna immediately notice some
examples where the greedy approach of,
let me take the two symbol every
time ends up not being optimal or
it ends up putting you in a corner
where the solution doesn't work.
So, sometimes you wanna start
with the two symbol but
be able to backtrack and
try a single symbol.
That'll end up happening a lot
if you try that out on paper, so
I'm short-circuiting a little bit of
that work for you, but try it yourself.
Take a couple of words and try it.
And by the way,
I should have mentioned this before.
Let me switch back to the app.js.
I gave you some test cases here.
These are all words that can actually be
spelled with just the periodic symbols,
and I wanna highlight even words
like the word irresponsibilities.
Some really interesting words
that you might not have expected,
dynasties, all of these are words
that can be spelled with our speller,
and there are, I'm sure, many more,
ostentatious, viscosities.
I told you about yucky, I like that one.
So, there's some fun options in here.
Anyway, you can pick any of those as
you're kind of testing on your paper.
Try spelling those out and
see that you'll end up needing to do some
backtracking from the two back to the one,
that sort of thing.
So, we're gonna need to handle that.
And as soon as you start realizing that
your problem is gonna need to backtrack,
that's the first mental
bookmark that tells you,
I'm gonna need to manage
a stack of states.
I'm gonna need to go down
in a problem solution path,
and then I might get to the end and
everything's great, or it might realize,
I need to back myself back up, so, I need
to remember those states and back up.
And as soon as you're managing a stack of
states, the first thing that should come
to your mind is,
maybe I wanna solve this with recursion.
I could do it with a loop and managing my
own states, but this is probably gonna be
a case where I want some recursion
to make things a little easier.
So, we do need to go through
all of the elements.
There's no short-circuiting this.
So, I'm gonna of elements.
We need to go through the whole list of
our elements to see, to inspect each one.
And the thing that we
want to guard on is if
the input word has enough
characters in it for
whatever symbol we're looking at.
The input word at this moment could
have only one character in it, and
we might be looking at a symbol
that has two characters in it,
in which case we don't need to
pay any attention to that symbol.
You follow me?
So, we're gonna do an if statement
here that says, if the symbol length,
Sorry, let me do this.
Let's save ourselves a little bit of
typing by assigning this to a variable.
We're gonna say, element.symbol, and
we're gonna need it to be lowercase for
our comparison, so
I'm just gonna go ahead and lowercase it.
So, we're just saving off that property.
There's a question?
Yes.
>> Should we divide input by two and
recursively cover both cases and
do that for each possibility?
>> That's a great question.
So, you remember that we talked earlier
in the workshop in the primer about that
notion of divide and
conquer that recursive search.
Remember the eight golden spheres, if we
did four and four and then two and two and
then one and one.
The nature of that problem
allowed us to eliminate half of
the possible things that
we needed to look at.
Does the nature of this problem
allow us that same strategy?
Imagine if we took the first
half of whatever the word is and
the second half of the word.
We are gonna have to do both.
So, that's not really removing
part of our problem, but
it does make the problem easier.
So, it does still fit generally under
the concept of divide and conquer.
If I can find out the symbols for
the first half and the symbols for
the second half, that seems on
the surface to be a plausible approach.
And then for each one of those,
you can divide and divide.
So, it does seem, on the surface, that it
works, but there is a wrinkle here that
will make this probably not
the right strategy for us.
I wonder if anybody can spot the wrinkle,
why might that not be what we wanna do?
>> If you do it, it's in the middle.
The combination of letters that you
used to split could have been needed for
you to spell the word.
>> Yeah, exactly,
if you chose to split, first of all,
we have the question of, what if my
word is not an even number of letters?
So then, I'm gonna have a four and
a three, for example,
not that big a deal cuz we can
still handle those independently.
But if I chose to divide it at four and
three, and figure out symbols for
the four and then symbols for the three,
what if the symbol that actually works to
make this a match needs to span that gap?
So, I'm actually gonna need to potentially
pick multiple pivot points for
that splitting and
do the work multiple times.
Do the work in one way,
and if it doesn't work,
then try splitting it in a different way
and see if I can make it work there.
So, we're gonna end up potentially
doing more work that way.
So, that's the wrinkle
that we wanna worry about.
Yes,
>> I would say
that you also have to duplicate
your reference dataset somehow.
If you are running two checks,
you can't assume that
the lookup table can be halved.
So, if you have if you split one array
into two, you either need to have two
references to the same lookup or you need
to ship that lookup table to both points,
because you can't make the assumption
that you know how to split up your data.
>> Yeah, so, another way of stating
that is that we have a state management
problem, which we have anyway when
we're doing this recursive and
backtracking thing, but we have
a reference problem, which is just passing
the array to the next level or keeping
track of the array at the next level.
Might not work because of the references
that the array might survive across those
function calls.
So, you're right, we'd have to be more
careful with our state management in that
scenario, absolutely.
So, we're gonna go a different approach
here, which is what our strategy that
we're going to take, and
you may have arrived at this already.
But this is, again, we're gonna do
an implementation is the naive way, and
then we'll come back and
try to rethink if there's a better way.
So, when you look at this
solution that I'm gonna try,
you may think, this is awful.
That's the point,
we want something that works.
And this was the most
naive that I came up with.
Others may come up with different ones,
this is the most naive
that I came up with.
What we're going to do is, we're
going to take off a symbol off of our
element list if it matches the first
one or two characters in the input word
that we're considering, we're gonna
take one of those and attempt it.
Basically we'll think about
it kind of like a candidate.
We're gonna have a partial match.
So, we'll take that one, and then we'll
split the word into what we matched
versus what we have not yet matched.
So, it's kinda like divide and
conquer, but
it's not a binary thing where we're
doing halves, we're gonna split it into
what I've already matched versus
what I have not yet matched.
And we're gonna recurse into matching what
I have not yet matched as the new word,
it's a partial word that gets smaller and
smaller.
So, it's an implementation of divide and
conquer, but
it's not your strictly half and
half kind of thing the way,
we typically think of in a binary search,
okay?
We're gonna try that and
go all the way down.
So, we're gonna sort of depth-first
recurse all the way down to try to find
that answer.
And if we succeed, great, but if we fail,
then we have to kinda back our way up and
try a different symbol at
each one of those steps.
We have to keep trying to go down and
back up and down and
back up until we either have exhausted all
possible options, or we found a match.
That'll be our basic strategy here.
Makes sense?
Hopefully, at least roughly.
I'm getting a couple of nods, so, we'll
hope that that makes at least rough sense.
Let's try this with some code.
So, let's say that we
need to double check.
As I was saying a bit before
I got ahead of myself,
we wanna double check that we actually
have enough characters left in
the input word to match
the symbol that we're looking at.
So, we wanna say that
the symbol.length is less than or
equal to the inputWord.length.
Remember, as I recurse down,
this parameter is gonna get a smaller and
smaller string.
We're gonna be slicing off more and
more off the front of it and
leaving only the remaining
characters in the string.
So, we're going from the front.
We could go from the back, but it turns
out it's better to go from the front.
It's less work to go from the front.
So, what we're checking here is,
for this given symbol,
do I have at least enough input
word characters to make a match?
And then we're gonna ask,
did I actually make a match?
So, if the input word.slice, and we're
gonna take the number of characters that
we need off of the input word, I could
do this with a regular expression, but
since people don't like regular
expressions, we're gonna avoid those.
So, we need to get the slice of that,
and the way I know how many characters I
want is to do inputWord,slice,
starting at position 0, going forward,
the number of characters in the symbol,
could be one or two.
But I need to get that many characters
off of the input word string.
So, take the first one or
two characters off the string and
see if it's equal to symbol.
In other words, did I make a match?
Put a code comment here so
we're not losing track,
did the symbol match the first one or
two characters in inputWord?
Some people hate code comments,
they think that it is a smell
that your code is not written.
Those people are wrong.
Code comments are extremely important,
and they are 1000 times more important
when you're trying to figure
out how to write an algorithm.
So, absolutely write code comments,
leave breadcrumbs for yourself.
Yes, it does require you to
maintain those code comments.
That's just part of the job.
Okay, so we do have a match,
but now we have another
decision point,
which is have we finished or not?
Did the match that we just make fully
sufficiently match the whole word?
In our base case, if we passed in
a two-character word like the word be,
B-E, and
we found the symbol beryllium, B-E,
I think that's beryllium, B-E and
B-E, well, we've made a match.
We've found enough symbols
to cover the word.
So, we need to ask,
have we made that full word match?
Are there any characters left?
So, that's how we're gonna ask it
is if the inputWord, remember,
this slice is just pulled a substring off.
It didn't actually mutate the string.
So, we still have the full word here and
inputWord and we need to say,
if the inputWord length is
greater than the symbol.length,
then we still have characters left.
I'll make another code comment for
that, still have characters left.
If inputWord length is
greater than symbol length,
that means they're still
characters to look at.
And this is where we eventually now have
arrived at our need to recurse, okay?
We cannot do a return
of the recursive call.
Many, many times you see recursive
examples, they'll do return and
then a function call.
But here we can't return because we have
to conditionally decide whether what
we got from the return worked, in which
case we can return it, or did it fail,
in which case we need to let the loop at
this layer of the stack just keep going.
So, we're gonna save this off into a
variable, I'll call it res, for a result.
And we're gonna recursively
call our same function.
And here's where this becomes recursive,
because we're going to say,
inputWord, but less than the inputWord
that we received at this level.
This is where we shrink our problem.
This is our divide and conquer approach,
we're shrinking the word.
So, the shrinking of that word is to take
inputWord.slice starting at this position,
starting at symbol.length and
going to the end.
And I don't need to put a second
argument to slice because it will
automatically go to the end if
I provide only one argument.
So, this expression here says get
all the rest of the characters,
I could assign that to a variable
called rest of characters.
And I'm calling check on
the rest of the characters.
There's our recursive call.
We matched off two characters and
we've got seven left.
So, check, go figure out how to
spell these seven characters
with the periodic table of elements,
and then I'll combine
your answer with my symbol for
passing back up to the next level.